Translated techlab 3.5 to english (#31)
appuio/techlab: labs/07_troubleshooting_ops.md

# Lab 7: Troubleshooting whats in the pod?

> This lab will shjow you how to deal with errors and troubleshooting, and which toosl are available to you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This lab will show you how to deal with errors and troubleshooting, and which tools are available to you.
```

> ## Log in to the cntainer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log in to the container
```

We use the project from [Lab 4](04_deploy_dockerimage.md) `[USER]-dockerimage`. **Hint:** `oc project [USER]-dockerimage`

Running containers are treated as immutable infrastructure and shouldn't be modified. However there are usecases where you should log in to a container. For example, debugging and analysis.

## Task: LAB7.1

> With Openshift remote shells to Pods can be opened without installing SSH beforehand. For this the command `oc rsh` is availanle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Openshift allows us to open remote shells into pods without installing SSH.
```

> Select a Pod using `oc get pods` and issue the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select a pod using `oc get pods` and issue the following command:
```

```
$ oc rsh [POD]
```

> You now have a shell within the container and can perfom analyzes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now have a shell within the container and can perfom analysis:
```

...
```

> ## View log files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Viewing Log Files
```

The log files for a pod can be displayed in the web console as well as in the cli:

```
$ oc logs [POD]
```
The `-f` parameter has the same behavior as `tail -f`
If a pod has the status **CrashLoopBackOff** this means it could not be started succesfully even after repeated restarts. The logfiles still can be displayed even if the pod is not running with the following command:

 ```
$ oc logs -p [POD]
```

> With OpenShift an EFK (Elasticsearch, Fluentd, Kibana) stack is delivered, which collects, rotates and aggregates all log files. Kibana allows logs to be searched, filtered and graphically edited. For more information and an optional Lab see [here](../additional-labs/logging_efk_stack.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With OpenShift an EFK (Elasticsearch, Fluentd, Kibana) stack is delivered, which collects, rotates and aggregates all log files. Kibana allows logs to be searched, filtered and graphically edited. For more information and an optional lab see [here](../additional-labs/logging_efk_stack.md).
```

## Task: LAB7.3 Port Forwarding

> OpenShift 3 allows us to forward any port from our workstation to the pod. This is useful to use admin consoles, databases etc., which should not be exposed towards the internet. In contrast to OpenShift 2 the portforwarding is tunneled through the same HTTPS-connection as the OpenShift client (`oc`) uses. This is useful if there are restrictive firewalls and/or proxies between your workstation and OpenShift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenShift 3 allows us to forward any port from our workstation to the pod. This is useful to use admin consoles, databases etc. which should not be exposed towards the internet. In contrast to OpenShift 2 the portforwarding is tunneled through the same HTTPS connection as the OpenShift client (`oc`) uses. This is useful if there are restrictive firewalls and/or proxies between your workstation and OpenShift.
```

> OpenShift 3 allows us to forward any port from our workstation to the pod. This is usefull to use adminstrationconsoles, databases and so on which should not be exposed towards the internet. In contrast to Openshift 2 the portforwarding is tunneled through the same HTTPS-connection as the Openshift Client (`oc`) uses. This is usefull if there are restrictive Firewalls and/or Proxies between your Workstation and Openshift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenShift 3 allows us to forward any port from our workstation to the pod. This is useful to use admin consoles, databases etc, which should not be exposed towards the internet. In contrast to OpenShift 2 the portforwarding is tunneled through the same HTTPS-connection as the Openshift client (`oc`) uses. This is useful if there are restrictive firewalls and/or proxies between your workstation and OpenShift.
```

Reviewer 3: Unless "admin-consoles" is a technical term (i.e. if it is plain English) "admin consoles" should be written as two separate words.

Reviewer 3: I believe, there should be a comma before "which". Source: [Grammarly](https://www.grammarly.com/blog/comma-before-which/)

Reviewer 3: "OpenShift" should be written with a capital S letter (because this is the brand name). x2

Reviewer 3: Also, write "OpenShift client" with a small initial letter ("client" is just a normal English word, isn't it?).

Reviewer: @bittner I updated my review

> Excercise: Access the Spring Boot Metrics from [Lab 4](04_deploy_dockerimage.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Excercise: Access the Spring Boot Metrics from [lab 4](04_deploy_dockerimage.md).
```

> Excercise: Acces the Spring Boot Metrics from [Lab 4](04_deploy_dockerimage.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excercise: Access the Spring Boot Metrics from [Lab 4](04_deploy_dockerimage.md).
```

```
oc get po --namespace="[USER]-dockerimage"
oc port-forward example-spring-boot-1-xj1df 9000:9000 --namespace="[USER]-dockerimage"
```

> Don't forgett to change the Pod Name accordingly. If installed you can use the TAB-completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to change the pod name accordingly. If installed you can use tab completion.
```

Reviewer 3: I believe, it should say, "tab completion" (no dash, no capital letters).

Reviewer: updated

> The Metrics can be found under [http://localhost:9000/metrics/](http://localhost:9000/metrics/). They will be shown in json. With the same concept you could connect a local SQL client with your database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metrics can be found at [http://localhost:9000/metrics/](http://localhost:9000/metrics/). They will be displayed in json. With the same concept you could connect a local SQL client with your database.
```

> Further Documentation to port forwarding can be found under: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.5/dev_guide/port_forwarding.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Further documentation on port forwarding can be found at <https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.5/dev_guide/port_forwarding.html>.
```

---

> **End Lab 7**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**End of lab 7**
```
